Blog: Sprig alternatives (#8687)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/best-sprig-alternatives.mdx

---
title: 'The best Sprig alternatives & competitors, compared'
date: 2024-06-12
author:
  - lior-neu-ner
rootpage: /blog
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/posthog-alternatives/posthog-alternatives.jpeg
featuredImageType: full
category: General
tags:
  - Comparisons
---

import { ComparisonTable } from 'components/ComparisonTable'
import { ComparisonRow } from 'components/ComparisonTable/row'

## 1. PostHog

- **Founded:** 2020
- **Similar to:** Hotjar, Pendo
- **Typical users:** Engineers and product teams

![PostHog](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/screenshots/feature-flags.png)

### What is PostHog?

> [PostHog](/) (that's us 👋) is an open-source platform that combines surveys, product analytics, session replay, A/B testing, and feature flags. This means it's not only an alternative to Sprig but also tools like [Mixpanel](/blog/posthog-vs-mixpanel) and [LaunchDarkly](/blog/posthog-vs-launchdarkly).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[PostHog](/) (that's us 👋) is an open-source platform that combines surveys, product analytics, session replay, A/B testing, and feature flags. This means it's not only an alternative to Sprig, but also tools like [Mixpanel](/blog/posthog-vs-mixpanel) and [LaunchDarkly](/blog/posthog-vs-launchdarkly).
```

> According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/PostHog), as of June 2024, 4,661 of the top million websites deploy PostHog, significantly more than the 378 who use Sprig.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/PostHog), as of June 2024, 4,661 of the top million websites deploy PostHog, significantly more than the 378 that use Sprig.
```

#### Key features

- 💬 **Surveys:** Target surveys by event or user properties. Templates for [net promoter score (NPS)](/templates/nps-survey), [product-market fit (PMF)](/templates/pmf-survey) surveys, and more.

- 📈 **Product analytics:** Custom trends, funnels, user paths, retention analysis, and segment user cohorts. Also, direct [SQL querying](/docs/product-analytics/sql) for power users.

- 📺 **Session replays:** View exactly how users are using your site. Includes event timelines, console logs, network activity, and 90-day data retention.

- 🧪 **A/B tests:** Experiment in your app with up to nine test variations and track impact on primary and secondary metrics. Auto-calculate test duration, sample size, and statistical significance.

- 🚩 **Feature flags:** Rollout features safely with [local evaluation](/docs/feature-flags/local-evaluation) (for faster performance), JSON payloads, and instant rollbacks.

### How does PostHog compare to Sprig?

> PostHog and Sprig have similar capabilities when it comes to surveys and replays but differ on other features. Sprig offers AI analysis to summarize surveys and feedback, while PostHog includes entire features Sprig doesn't have, like product analytics, A/B testing, and feature flags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog and Sprig have similar capabilities when it comes to surveys and replays, but differ on other features. Sprig offers AI analysis to summarize surveys and feedback, while PostHog includes entire features Sprig doesn't have, like product analytics, A/B testing, and feature flags.
```

> They also differ on support for mobile apps. All of Sprig's feature are available for mobile apps, whereas PostHog does not yet offer surveys on mobile (although it supports replays and heatmaps).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They also differ on support for mobile apps. All of Sprig's features are available for mobile apps, whereas PostHog doesn't yet offer surveys on mobile – although it does support replays and heatmaps on apps.
```

According to [G2 reviews](https://www.g2.com/products/posthog/reviews), companies use PostHog because:

1. **It's many tools in one:** PostHog can replace Sprig (surveys and heatmaps), [Amplitude](/blog/posthog-vs-amplitude) (analytics), and [Statsig](/blog/posthog-vs-statsig) (A/B testing and feature flags). This simplifies workflows and ensures all product data is in one place.

2. **They need a complete picture of users:** PostHog includes every tool necessary to understand users and build better products. This means creating funnels to track conversion, watching replays to see where users get stuck, testing solutions with A/B tests, and gathering feedback with user surveys.

3. **Pricing is transparent and scalable:** Reviewers appreciate how PostHog's pricing scales as they grow. There's a [generous free tier](/pricing). Companies eligible for [PostHog for Startups](/startups) also get $50k in additional free credits.

> #### Bottom line
> 
> For teams looking for all the tools they need to improve their products, PostHog makes for a great alternative. This is especially true for startups and scaleups thanks to it having a generous free tier.

> 
> <NewsletterForm />
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Hotjar?

According to G2 reviews, users are fans of Hotjar because:

1. **Insights on user behavior:** Hotjar captures what users are doing, where their attention is going, and how they are spending their time. Users love the insights they get with Hotjar's tools.

2. **Simple for non-technical users:** Hotjar is easy to set up. Non-technical roles like designers, marketers, and product managers find it simple to use. The visuals do a good job of making data clear.

3. **Heatmaps and scrollmaps:** Seeing clicks and scroll depth down works well and creates actionable insights for design, marketing, and content teams. Helps improve UX and page designs.

> #### Bottom line
> 
> Hotjar is a good option for product and marketing teams who want to do in-depth analysis on user journeys within products, especially compared to other Sprig alternatives like Crazy Egg that are more focused on e-commerce and small business users.

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<br />

```

- 📊 **Product analytics:** Learn how users are using your app with event autocapture. Analyze with funnels, trends, and retention analysis.

- 📹 **Session replay:** Watch real users use your product and understand the behavior behind your analytics data.

- 🛣️ **Product validation and roadmaps:** Manage your backlog and plan your roadmap to create alignment.

### How does Pendo compare to Sprig?

Pendo is the most similar alternative to Sprig. It includes all of the key features and more (like analytics and funnels).  

<ComparisonTable column1="Hotjar" column2="Sprig">
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Surveys" description="Collect feedback and run satisfaction surveys" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Session replay" description="Watch real users on your site; discover friction points" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Heatmaps" description="Visualize where users click and interact on your site" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Scroll maps" description="See how far users scroll on websites and apps" />

>   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Product analytics" description="Track trends, funnels, user paths, and retention" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Product analytics" description="Track trends, funnels, user paths, and retention" />
```

Author: Pendo does have product analytics?

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Cookieless tracking option" description="Use session replays and analytics without cookie consent banners" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Pendo?

According to G2 reviews, customers use Pendo for:

1. **Customer support and feedback:** Product and customer support value Pendo for its feedback collection and roadmapping capabilities. Users like how it helps them figure out what to work on next.

2. **Improving onboarding:** Pendo's in-app guides combined with analytics features facilitate experimenting with new onboarding flows and improving user adoption.

3. **Product planning:** Pendo's data tools, product validation, and roadmap features help align internal teams and stakeholders on product development.

> #### Bottom line
> 
> Pendo makes for a solid alternative to Sprig thanks to its matching feature set while also being self-serve. Pendo's opaque pricing can be a turnoff to some, though.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<br />

```

## 4. FullStory

- **Founded:** 2012
- **Similar to:** 
- **Typical users:** Product managers, customer success, and support teams

![FullStory](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/best-logrocket-alternatives/fullstory.png)

### What is FullStory?

[FullStory](/blog/best-fullstory-alternatives) describes itself as a "behavioral data platform," which is code for product analytics with a side of session replay and mobile app analytics. It focuses on behavioral analytics, and like PostHog, it supports event autocapture, so you don't have to manually code every event you want to capture.

> According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/FullStory), as of June 2024, 8,226 of the top one million websites use FullStory. This is just under VWO's 9,183.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/FullStory), as of June 2024, 8,226 of the top one million websites use FullStory, much more than Sprig's 378.
```

> ### Key features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Key features
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Cookieless tracking option" description="Use session replays and analytics without cookie consent banners" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use FullStory?

According to [G2 reviews](https://www.g2.com/products/fullstory/reviews), people like FullStory because:

1. **Easier collaboration:** As an accessible tool for non-technical users, FullStory facilitates collaboration between product, UX, and engineering teams by allowing all teams to access useful, reliable data.

2. **Viewing user issues:** Support teams use FullStory to replay sessions to understand user hard-to-replicate problems and identify bugs that need fixing.

3. **Improving conversion:** FullStory users like to combine funnel insights with replays of user sessions to understand pain points and improve conversion.

> #### Bottom line
> For a complete behavioral analytics suite, FullStory is a good choice, especially for mobile apps. However, surveys is a sorely missed feature.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<br />

```

## 5. Crazy Egg

- **Founded:** 2006
- **Similar to:** Lucky Orange, Hotjar
- **Typical users:** Marketers and UX designers

![Lucky Orange](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/clarity-alternatives/luckyorange.png)

### What is Crazy Egg?

Crazy Egg is a heatmap and optimization platform tool for small business owners and marketers. A big user group is e-commerce businesses who run Shopify stores. 

It's best used for heatmaps and surveys, but also includes basic replay, A/B testing, and website analytics tools. It's ideal for non-technical users who want to optimize their websites and drive conversions.

According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/CrazyEgg), as of June 2024, 10,861 of the top million websites use Crazy Egg. This is significantly more than Sprig's 378.

> ### Key features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Key features
```

- 🔥 **Heatmaps:** See where users move, click, and scroll. Get reports on their interactions with your website.

- 📺 **Session replay:** Watch recordings of actual visitors using your website. Figure out where they get stuck or where they avoid.

- 🧪 **A/B testing:** Use the visual page editor or URL selector to run A/B tests.

- 💬 **Surveys:** Fully customizable surveys help you get qualitative feedback at all stages of the customer journey.

- 🐞 **Errors tracking:** Find out if errors are preventing your visitors from converting.

### How does Lucky Orange compare to Mouseflow?

> Crazy Egg has a few features Sprig doesn't, including basic analytics and A/B tests, but does not mobile apps. Other than that, they are very similar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Crazy Egg has a few features Sprig doesn't, including basic analytics and A/B tests, but doesn't support mobile apps. Other than that, they are very similar.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Crazy Egg?

According to G2 reviews, people use Crazy Egg because:

1. **It's easy to setup:** Crazy Egg makes it easy integrate with numerous services and content management systems, like Shopify, Wix, and Wordpress. This is especially useful for website owners and agencies who run multiple websites.

2. **They want to improve content and conversions:** Crazy Egg's heatmaps and session replay features enable people to gather valuable insights for optimizing their content, increasing conversions, and understanding how users navigate their websites.

3. **Gathering feedback** Users like that they can combine data with the qualitative feedback from users and customer CTAs.
   
> #### Bottom line
> 
> If you're looking for an option to optimize your marketing or e-commerce site, Crazy Egg is a solid choice. If you're looking for product analytics, funnels, or mobile app support, it's best to look elsewhere.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<br />

```

## 6. Lucky Orange

- **Founded:** 2010
- **Similar to:** Crazy Egg, Hotjar
- **Typical users:** Marketers and consultants

![Lucky Orange](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1710055416/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/clarity-alternatives/luckyorange.png)

### What is Lucky Orange?

Lucky Orange is a simple website analyisis tool. It's designed for e-commerce websites and includes session replays, heatmaps, and surveys. It also offers built-in form analytics, live chat, and announcements widgets that help store owners improve their conversion.

According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Lucky-Orange), as of June 2024, 3,817 of the top million websites use Lucky Orange. This is much more than Sprig's 378.

> ### Key features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Key features
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Cookieless tracking option" description="Use session replays and analytics without cookie consent banners" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Lucky Orange?

According to G2 reviews, customers use Lucky Orange because:

1. **It's easy to use:** Lucky Orange has a simple UI, which makes it easy to analyze user behavior and identify issues with websites.

2. **It helps them improve conversion:** Customers are mostly using Lucky Orange to optimize landing pages and e-commerce checkout flows.

3. **It doesn't impact page speed:** Users report Lucky Orange has negligible impact on website performance, which they value highly.

> #### Bottom line
> 
> Lucky Orange is ideal for small businesses owners who want actionable insights without much effort, though its streamlined interface may be too limiting for larger teams who want more powerful tools.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<br />

```

## 7. Survicate

- **Founded:** 2015
- **Similar to:** Pendo
- **Typical users:** Product managers and customer success teams

![Survicate](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/v1718191236/posthog.com/contents/survicate.png)

### What is Survicate?

> Survicate is a tool that focuses solely on surveys. They support many platforms, including, mobile apps, web apps, and even email. They also offer many integrations so that you can export your survey data to your existing analytics tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Survicate is a tool that focuses solely on surveys. It supports many platforms, including, mobile apps, web apps, and even email. It also offers many integrations, so that you can export your survey data to your existing analytics tools.
```

According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/analytics/Lucky-Orange), as of June 2024, 978 of the top million websites use Survicate.

> ### Key features

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Key features
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Cookieless tracking option" description="Use session replays and analytics without cookie consent banners" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to roadmap, and build integrations" />
</ComparisonTable>

### Why do companies use Survicate?

According to G2 reviews, customers use Survicate because:

1. **It's easy to use:** Survicate has a simple UI, which makes it easy to analyze user behavior and identify issues with apps.

2. **Cost-Effectiveness:** Survicate is an affordable option for businesses of all sizes looking to collect continuous customer feedback at scale.

3. **Integration Capabilities:** Survicate seamlessly integrates with a wide range of popular tools and platforms, such as Slack, HubSpot, and Google Analytics. These integrations make it easy to incorporate survey data into existing workflows.

> #### Bottom line
> 
> If you're only looking to collect feedback with surveys, Survicate is an great choice for a fair price. If you need gather more insights beyond surveys, it's best to look elsewhere.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<br />

```

---
title: 'The best Sprig alternatives & competitors, compared'

> date: 2024-06-12

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2024-06-17
```

> date: 2024-06-17

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2024-06-18
```
